# DSCI235 Final Project
## By Ethan Powers and Nathan Mitchell

  For this project, we will be analyzing data concerning the Winter Olympics since its induction in 1924 up until 2014. The only years in which the Winter Olympics did not take place were in 1940 and 1944 because of World War II. To guide this project, we have come up with two hypotheses. We will use the data and data visualizations to support or reject these hypotheses. First, though, in a preliminary analysis, we wish to see which countries have won the most total, gold, silver, and bronze medals. With this we will plot a medal breakdown for the top three medal-winning countries. This information will be used throughout the rest of the project.

  To start, we believe that since the first Winter Olympics there has been an increase in the number of medal-winning events. Because of this, we believe that countries will have seen an increase in the number of total medals they have won over the years. This raises our first hypothesis. We believe that the proportion of medals won by the top-three medal-winning countries has stayed the same as more medal-winning events have been introduced. To analyze this, we will plot the number of medals won at every game and compare this to the total number of medals the top three medal-winning countries have won and the percent of total medals these countries have won over the years.

  A second question that we wish to answer is what the top medal-producing events are for the three countries that have won the most total medals. The results from this will tie into our next hypothesis.

  Our second hypothesis that we wish to examine with our data is to see if countries that are known for a specific event rank highest in overall gold medals and overall total medals in their respective well-known event. To go along with this, we wish to analyze if each of the top-three medal-winning countries place first in gold and total medals won for their respective highest medal-winning event.

  On top of this, we wish to examine events that don't have an immediate top medal-winning country that comes to mind. Curling, for example, is an event at the Winter Olympics, but no immediate country comes to mind as to who may rank best in this event. Curling is just one example, but we will also examine Luge, Alpine Skiing, and Snowboarding to see which countries rank highest in total and gold medals won.
